---
layout: "@/layouts/StoryLayout.astro"
title: Argumentative Essay "Tell-Tale Heart"
---

“His eye would trouble me no more.” (“Tell-Tale Heart” 11) That’s what John Doe thought after he killed the old man. John Doe broke into an old man’s house repeatedly, after which John Doe killed the old man. John Doe may seem to show characteristics from the M’Naghten rule but in reality, he is a cold, hard criminal with full control over their thoughts and actions. The M’Naghten rule states <mark>“to establish a defense on the ground of insanity, it must be clearly proved that, at the time of the committing of the act, the party accused was laboring under such a defect of reason, from the disease of the mind, as not to know the nature and quality of the act he was doing; or, if he did know it, that he did not know he was doing what was wrong.”</mark> <mark class="bg-green-400">John Doe of "The Tell-Tale Heart" by Edgar Allan Poe is considered legally sane according to the precedent set by the M'Naghten Rule because he adds things to the story to make people think he had a reason to kill the old man.</mark>

<mark>“I loved the old man. He had never wronged me. He had never given me insult. For his gold, I had no desire. I think it was his eye! Yes, it was this!” (“Tell-Tale Heart” 2), “it was not the old man who vexed me, but his Evil Eye” (“Tell-Tale Heart” 3)</mark> John Doe convinced himself that the eye was the reason for the murder. However, there is no evidence that this is the real reason he killed the man. He is trying to downplay the true nature of his crime: a random, well-planned killing. Moreover, he repeats statements such as <mark>“it was not the old man who vexed me, but his Evil Eye,” (“Tell-Tale Heart” 3)</mark> throughout the whole story, attempting to keep the subject on how the old man’s eyes are demonic. As can be seen, John Doe didn’t have a reason to kill the old man but made a reason to make him seem less psychopathic.

<mark>In the “Tell-Tale Heart”, John Doe states that he had been too wary of blood and that he had been so proud of the way he hid the body parts of the man that no human eye could detect anything wrong.</mark> John Doe was conscious of his decision to hide the body parts. If he didn’t understand what he was doing, he would have left the body to rot until the police got there. If he understood what he was doing but didn’t think it was wrong, why would he hide it from the police? Notably, if he thought what he was doing was for the greater good, but that the police wouldn’t understand, that doesn’t apply to the M’Naghten rule. In brief, John Doe hiding the body parts of the old man shows that he doesn’t apply to the M’Naghten rule.

<mark>“I placed my hand upon the heart and held it there many minutes. There was no pulsation. He was stone dead. His eye would trouble me no more.” (“Tell-Tale Heart” 11), “you cannot imagine how stealthily, stealthily– until, at length, a single dim ray, like the thread of a spider, shot out from the crive and fell upon the vulture eye.” (“Tell-Tale Heart” 8)</mark> Some believe John Doe was showing the first criteria for the M’Naghten rule because he thought he was defeating a demon. However, as said previously, the eye is just John Doe’s reasoning for killing the elderly man.

All in all, <mark class="bg-green-400">according to the precedent set by the M’Naghten rule, John Doe is legally sane.</mark> With this in mind, the “Evil Eye” is John Doe’s reasoning for killing the old man, even though it had no influence on his actions in the moment. In addition, when John Doe hid the body parts, the M’Naghten rule couldn’t apply to him anymore. Finally, John Doe is a sane, dangerous person and should be removed from society permanently.
